

===== PAGE 1 =====

COS30018 – Intelligent Systems Project Assignment (Topic 1) 
 
 
Automated Negotiation System 
 Due: 11:59 pm 29/5/2026 (Friday of Week 12) 
 Contributes 50% of your final result 
 Group Assignment – Group of 4-5 students 
 
Summary 
You need to implement and demonstrate a platform for automated negotiation to trade automotive vehicles. 
The platform will enable any number of car dealers and buyers to come in and sell or buy cars. You must 
implement agents to represent the dealers and the buyers. The dealer lists his available cars at his retail 
prices with a broker agent and the buyer contacts the broker agent to view these listings before engaging 
with up to three dealers in direct negotiations. The objective of a dealer is to maximise his profit and a buyer 
wants to buy her desired car at the lowest price. 
 
The system will involve the following roles: 
 Broker Agent (KA) (1 agent) 
• Receives listings from dealers 
• Sends relevant deals to buyers 
• Facilitates negotiations between a pair of buyer and dealer 
• Receives the commissions for each successful deal and a fixed fee for each negotiation 
 Dealer Agent (DA) (at least 3 dealer agents) 
• Sends listings to KA 
• Receives a list of potential buyers and their offers 
• Selects the buyers he wants to engage and returns this list to KA 
• Initiates the negotiations with the selected buyers 
 Buyer Agent (BA) (at least 5 buyer agents) 
• Contacts KA with the specifications of the cars she wants to buy 
• Receives a list of dealers whose cars match her specifications 
• Sends back to KA the cars she is willing to negotiate with her first offers 
• Receives the requests from dealers to negotiate (if any) 

===== PAGE 2 =====

COS30018 – Intelligent Systems Project Assignment (Topic 1) 
 
Interaction configuration: 
 
 
 
Buyer 1 Dealer 1 
 
 
Buyer 2 
 
 
Buyer 3 
Dealer 2 
 
 
Dealer 3 
 
 
Constraints: 
 The interaction protocols can be FIPA predefined (e.g. CNP, iterated CNP), nested or newly specified. 
 The agents can use any standard content language. 
 The sequence diagrams describing the implemented interaction protocols are included in the report. 
 A GUI will be available for the user input, parameter settings and visualization (and a configuration file 
for the defaults). 
 
System requirements 
 Basic version.1: One core functionality of the system is to provide the trading platform with the broKer 
Agent KA. Dealers and buyers can join the platform. The GUI will allow DAs and BAs to input their 
information (e.g. dealer’s listings or buyer’s requirements for a car). The platform will also support the 
manual negotiation between a dealer and a buyer. 
 Basic version.2: Another core functionality of the system is to provide automated negotiation 
capability for a buyer. That is, the buyer can simply provide initial information such as her first offer 
and her reserve price and the agent will automatically negotiate with the dealer to get the best deal for 
her. You can assume that the agent is only engaging in a single negotiation with one dealer. 
 Extension.1: Extending the automated negotiation functionality to include multiple concurrent 
negotiations. 
 Extension.2: Extending the automated negotiation functionality to allow for multi-attribute 
negotiation. You’ll need to learn about integrative negotiation to implement a system that allows the 
agent to achieve win-win negotiation outcomes. 
 
Project requirements 
 Source code maintained on Git based VCS (Github/Bitbucket/GitLab/…).  
 Running illustrative demo of a working prototype (please refer to Marking Scheme for details on 
functionality that needs to be implemented) 
 The system should be demonstrable with a well-designed and realistic example 
 Project report (8-10 pages) that includes the following sections 
• Cover Page (with team details) and a Table of Contents (TOC) 
• Introduction 
• Overall system architecture 
• Implemented interaction protocols 
• Implemented negotiation strategies 
• Implemented prediction algorithm/s 
• Scenarios/examples to demonstrate how the system works 
• Some critical analysis of how the system performs with and without negotiation 
• Summary/Conclusion. 
• Presentation + demo video link (10 minutes duration) 
broKer 
Agent 

===== PAGE 3 =====

COS30018 – Intelligent Systems Project Assignment (Topic 1) 
 
Marking Scheme 
 
Requirements Mark 
Task 1: Complete development of Basic version.1 by building a multi -agent trading 
platform with the KA and the GUI interface for the DAs and BAs to join the trading 
platform. Basic interaction between KA -DAs and KA- BAs working fully according to 
well-defined inter action protocols whose sequence diagrams are to be included in the 
report. KA is able to receive the listings of the DAs and the requests from the BAs. KA is 
able to update the BAs with the relevant offers and receive back their shortlists. The DAs 
can then engage with their selected BAs to negotiate. 
40 
Task 2: Complete development of Basic version.2 by building an automated negotiation 
program to allow a BA to automatically negotiate with a DA. 
20 
Project Report 10 
Project Presentation (Video) 10 
 80 
Research Component (can be done by the whole team, a sub-team, or an individual) 
Select one of the Extensions and get your tutor’s approval then complete it very well. You 
can get up to 40% for this component and your Assignment will get up to 120% 
40 
 120/100 
You need to follow good programming practice (e.g., well-designed, well-structured codes 
with clear and helpful comments). Failure to do so get penalty. 
Up to -20 
You need to demonstrate the progress you make every week to your tutor. That is, if  your 
tutor approaches you and asks for the progress, you have to be able to show the progress 
you have made in comparison to the previous week. Failure to do so may result in a 
penalty. 
Up to -50 
 
NOTE:  
– Individual marks will be proportionally adjusted based on each team member’s overall contribution to 
the project as indicated in the ‘Who did what’ declaration. 
– You must also provide to shlee@swinburne.edu.my read only access to your git repository within 1 
week of forming teams. 
 
Submission 
• You must upload your work to Canvas by 11:59pm on 29/5/2026(Friday).  Create a single zip file 
with your code and a working version of your system. Standard late penalties apply - 10% for each 
day late, more than 5 days late is 0%. 
• The video (10 minute duration) link should be stated in the project report. 
 
 